# Kickstarting with Excel
## Overview of Project
### Background and Purpose
Our client Louise is an up-and-coming playwright who has started a Kickstarter campaign for her play Fever. The initial goal for her play was ten thousand dollars which has nearly been reached in a short amount of time. Up to this point, we have analyzed Kickstarter data and created visualizations for Louise in a variety of ways such as creating charts displaying the outcomes of Kickstarter categories, charts displaying the outcome of Kickstarter sub-categories, and extracting and displaying the results of several UK plays for a UK project she may have in the future. Now Louise has asked us to use the Kickstarter data to determine how other campaigns have fared when considering their launch dates and funding goals.
## Analysis and Challenges
The analysis done for this project was broken up into two parts. The outcomes of theater Kickstarter projects based on the launch dates of those projects, and the outcomes of Kickstarter plays based on their funding goals. 
### Analysis of Outcomes Based on Launch Date
The outcomes of theater Kickstarters based on their launch date was analyzed using a pivot table as seen in the image (https://github.com/MDaily7/kickstarter-analysis/blob/main/Resources/Theater_Outcomes_vs_Launch_PivotTable.png). The table was utilized to filter the Kickstarter data down to Theater data and respectively display the number of successful, failed, and canceled theater Kickstarters based on the month that the projects launched. The pivot table was then used to generate a pivot chart to provide a visualization of the outcomes of theater Kickstarters based on their launch date (https://github.com/MDaily7/kickstarter-analysis/blob/main/Resources/Theater_Outcomes_vs_Launch.png). 
### Analysis of Outcomes Based on Goals
The outcomes of Kickstarter plays based on their funding goals was analyzed by utilizing the COUNTIFS function in excel to quickly determine the number of successful, failed, and canceled plays within ranges of funding goals. This data was used to determine the total number of plays within each goal range and consequently the percentage of successful, failed, and canceled plays within each range as can be seen in the image (https://github.com/MDaily7/kickstarter-analysis/blob/main/Resources/Outcomes_vs_Goals_Count_Table.PNG). A chart was created from this data to display the percentage of successes and failures of plays at each range of funding goals (https://github.com/MDaily7/kickstarter-analysis/blob/main/Resources/Outcomes_vs_Goals.png). 
### Challenges and Difficulties Encountered
The analysis for this project was simple and very few challenges or difficulties were encountered. However, there are several areas where challenges could have arisen. For example, when creating the pivot table for the analysis of outcomes based on launch date, it was important to ensure that the correct data was being selected by excel. Furthermore, it was important to remove the years and quarters categories that generate when adding the date created column to the rows field of the table; if this is not done, the table and pivot chart resulting from the table are all but useless in the information that they provide. I did run into a slight difficulty with the COUNTIFS function when working on the analysis of outcomes based on goals due to my lack of familiarity with the function. Even so, the analysis continued smoothly after I learned that the criteria portion of the function must be kept in quotations. 
## Results
### Results of Analysis of Outcomes Based on Launch Date
Visually speaking, the theater outcomes based on launch date analysis seems to show that the number of failed theater Kickstarters stays roughly the same regardless of the launch date. However, the number of successful Kickstarters seems to improve in May and June before beginning to taper off to more normal levels from there. In conclusion, any future theater projects Louise decides to embark on should be started in May or June. Furthermore, the number of successful projects generally seems to be higher than the number of failed projects regardless of launch date with the notable exception of launching in December where the numbers are nearly the same. In other words, if a May or June launch date is not possible for some reason, launching in any month other than December may still provide a higher chance for success rather than failure. 
### Results of Analysis of Outcomes Based on Goals
The analysis of outcomes based on goals shows that most Kickstarters for plays have a goal of less than five thousand dollars. The success rates of these plays are good as well with plays under one thousand dollars being 76% successful and plays between one-thousand and five-thousand dollars having a 73% success rate. Therefore, it should be recommended to Louise that any future plays funded by Kickstarter should have a funding goal of five-thousand dollars or less. It should be noted that the plays with goals of thirty-five thousand to less than forty-thousand and goals of forty thousand to less than forty-five thousand also have decent success rates of 67%. However, the number of plays at those funding goal ranges were so minimal that the data should not be relied upon for the future. 
### Dataset Limitations
* We calculated the average donation for each Kickstarter, but without knowing the actual donation amounts, there could be outliers that are affecting that average. This could mislead us to believe that successful plays, for example, are likely to receive a particular average donation amount that is far inflated from the actual average donation. 
* Another limitation is that when you filter down to a relevant subcategory, the data set can become rather small. This was displayed in the outcomes based on goals analysis. Simply looking at the chart in that analysis could be misleading as any goal range beyond ten thousand had fewer than 100 projects. Without knowing this, a person could be tricked into thinking there is a strange funding goal window roughly between thirty-five thousand and forty-five thousand dollars where high goal plays can succeed. 
* However, the parent categories are sometimes too broad to always be used in place of the subcategories simply to increase sample size. For example, the theater category includes Kickstarters for spaces. The process of creating a successful Kickstarter for creating a space for theater seems likely to be reasonably different from the process of creating a successful play or musical Kickstarter. Briefly, removing spaces from our outcomes based on launch date analysis doesn’t seem to significantly effect the trend of the data. However, if you were to use the theater category rather than the play subcategory for the outcomes based on goals analysis, the significantly larger goals of the space subcategories would drastically change the data and could lead to some very harmful conclusions for funding goals related to plays. 
### Possible Projects with Kickstarter Data
An interesting part of Kickstarters are the incentives given for pledging. For example, pledging to a play may result in tickets to the play should the Kickstarter be successful. It would be interesting to create a pivot table of outcomes based on average donations. The table could be filtered based on the Kickstarter project being considered, and an appropriate pivot chart (most likely a line graph) could be created to visualize the data. This could give a creator a powerful tool for determining where to set pledge amounts that receive incentives. For example, if the average donation of successful tech startups is twenty dollars that would be a great pledge amount for receiving an incentive. However, as I stated before, determining average donations with the current Kickstarter data set is quite susceptible to outliers. Considering this, it may also be useful to create a histogram to display how frequently each average donation is made. This may give insight into how likely it is to receive a particular average donation. 
	In addition to this, the various tables and graphs that have already been made with Louise’s project in mind, could be made with other projects in mind and filtered by their relevant categories. Each project would likely have its own flavor of filtering and refinement, but the end results could be quite like what was created for Louise. For example, a pivot table could be created for outcomes based on launch dates for the technology category and a line graph could be created from that just as was done for theater outcomes based on launch dates. 
## Resources
* Resources folder containing images used: (https://github.com/MDaily7/kickstarter-analysis/tree/main/Resources)
* Zip folder containing data set: (https://github.com/MDaily7/kickstarter-analysis/blob/main/Kickstarter_Challenge.zip)
